Description

You are commissioned to create an application to track a group of students.  Your app will have the ability to add new students, change student attributes, and delete students.  

 

 

Technical Requirements

Database: you should create a database table (called “Student”) to collect information about a series of Students. The minimum attributes for the Students are name, weight, height, hair color, and gpa. In addition, you may add as many other Student attributes as you’d like (Be creative: P). 

Application: Your Node app should have the following features (I would suggest making a separate endpoint for each):

The ability to add new Students (with corresponding attributes).
The ability to change attributes of any of the Students. For this feature, there should be a form displayed with the existing attributes already filled in. 
The ability to delete any of the Students
The ability to display (draw) all Students currently in the database (including any other information you collect) in the form of rectangles (hint: use a <div> or <span> tag). For example, if you currently have three Students in your database as follows:
 

Student Database – Theoretical data only!

 

name

weight

height

Hair color

gpa

1

Bobby

150

30

red

2.5

2

Steve

200

30

blue

3.6

3

Dan

120

50

green

4.0

 

The display page could look something like this:

 

  Display Page

Display page with Bobby, Steve, and Dan as rectangles.  The rectangle 'Bobby' contains the number 2.5, 'Steve' contains the number 3.6, and 'Dan' contains 4.0.  'Bobby' and Steve have the same height but Steve has a greater width.  Dan has the largest height.

 

Notice that Bobby and Steve have the same height but Steve is proportionally heavier, Dan weighs less and is taller than both Bobby and Steve. Although not shown in the image above, I would recommend including links to allow the user to delete or update a student from this page.  For example, clicking on the rectangle 'Steve' could like the user to the update student 'Steve' page.  

In addition, you may also add or display any other attributes you wish.  Please note that the requirement stated above is a minimum list, you may add to them as you see fit.  Also, include a list of features for your web application in a README file (in case they are not immediately evident).  Please be creative, part of your grade will be based on usability and creativity.

The exact workflow is totally up to you.  I suggest to begin with a UI mockup of your app.  You may use any tool that you desire (including by hand).  For this assignment, it may be trivial, but you will have to include this as part of your documentation in subsequent project iterations. The UI mockup should contain your different views (pages) and how they are linked.  As a small example, a UI mockup for part of a bakery (buying) website could look like the following:

Screen Shot 2022-06-05 at 8.27.50 PM.png

 

This is a good logical starting point because it will give you a general picture of attributes that exist in your model so you can limit the number migrations you may have.

 

 

Submission

Your webpage must be stored on your heroku webspace. As with all subsequent assignments/project iterations, you should submit the following onto canvas.

The URL of your webapp, this is where we’ll be able to play around with your application
Your Gitlab link, this is where we can view your NodeJS project code, your progress and time of submission